Strategy update 2022-07 (#4171)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/strategy-goals/strategy/code-intelligence/index.md

- **Language indexers:** Maturity varies widely per language. See [LSIF indexers documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/references/indexers).

> - **Code intelligence platform:** We're currently working on delivering an out-of-the-box precise code intelligence solution to a small number of eager customers. This allows customers to easily set up precise code intelligence for Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin and TypeScript repositories. This also enables automatic indexing of a repository's dependencies, which means users are now be able to navigate and find references across repositories and dependencies alike.

Reviewer: What does that mean?

Author: That we're focusing on iterating on auto-indexing to allow always precise navigation for the languages we support. That includes cross-repo and cross-dependency. Would a simplified version of this paragraph be clearer?

Reviewer: Yeah I think we can simplify this to a what (we want to increase the amount of precise usage cos xrepo etc) and the why (what gets us closer to that).

> - **Code navigation:** Baseline features are implemented but have a considerable amount of debt and room for improvement. We're currently focusing on fixing and improving our core workflow features, with the goal of making the code navigation experience feel fast and reliable.

Reviewer: How? What specific things? How do we measure this?

Author: I'll update the phrasing here soon but to surface what we've been discussing in the roadmap doc: 

We can 1) work closely with the Search team to add and prioritize items in the [Core workflow punchlist](https://github.com/orgs/sourcegraph/projects/271/views/1) and 2) optimize for dev time saved by choosing metrics like popover latency and file load time

Reviewer: Yeah I'd also focus into a definite statement.  "We'll optimize for dev time saved by focusing on reducing file loading and navigation action latency".

In the last few months we’ve:

> - Improved our search-based navigation experience by implementing efforts like [Rockskip](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) and [Squirrel] (https://docs.google.com/document/d/10YHHydQXmPODzeDDSAm_audheahdc8NjCqQPBV_wcN0) for the top used languages.

Reviewer: I think that could be pulled out, Rockskip means we're able to generate symbols on any repository size (we should include the largest we've successfully indexed) and also how it means post pre-indexing we can then index new commits in 100ms or less etc.

Author: ```suggestion
- Improved our search-based navigation speed and accuracy by implementing [Squirrel](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10YHHydQXmPODzeDDSAm_audheahdc8NjCqQPBV_wcN0) for the top used languages. Squirrel also introduced the ability to navigate to local variables.
- Improved performance of the symbol sidebar and search-based code intelligence on big monorepos by implementing [Rockskip](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip). 
```

Author: Will add some metrics later

Reviewer: I don't know if we need to mention squirrel?

Reviewer: Is it something we'd communicate about to customers?

Author: ```suggestion
- Improved our search-based navigation speed and accuracy for the top used languages. We've also introduced the ability to navigate to local variables.
- Improved performance of the symbol sidebar and search-based code intelligence on big monorepos by implementing [Rockskip](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip). 
```

> - Improved our search-based navigation experience by implementing efforts like [Rockskip](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) and [Squirrel] (https://docs.google.com/document/d/10YHHydQXmPODzeDDSAm_audheahdc8NjCqQPBV_wcN0) for the top used languages.

Reviewer: Probably worth calling out what it's added here too, like ability to navigate local variables etc, accuracy of results

- Shipped the [executors service](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/executors) that powers [auto-indexing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/auto_indexing) to unlock precise cross repository and dependency navigation.

> - Launched [SCIP](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-scip), our new code indexing format, to address shortcomings of the LSIF format and allow us to deliver and iterate on indexers faster. This also paves the way for long awaited features like incremental indexing and cross-language navigation.

Reviewer: * of LISF

> - Launched [SCIP](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-scip), our new code indexing format, to address shortcomings of the LSIF format and allow us to deliver and iterate on indexers faster. This also paves the way for long awaited features like incremental indexing and cross-language navigation.

Reviewer: Wanna include an example here?

> - Launched [SCIP](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-scip), our new code indexing format, to address shortcomings of the LSIF format and allow us to deliver and iterate on indexers faster. This also paves the way for long awaited features like incremental indexing and cross-language navigation.

Author: ```suggestion
- Launched [SCIP](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-scip), our new code indexing format, to address shortcomings of LSIF and allow us to deliver and iterate on indexers faster. This also paves the way for long awaited features like incremental indexing and cross-language navigation.
```

Recent key learnings:

> - In alignment to the business strategy, making executors and auto-indexing available by default on managed instances and ensuring will be key part of moving Auto-indexing into Beta.

Reviewer: I think we should touch on that we're moving towards bundling auto-indexing, which would be beneficial for managed instances and on-prem.  Perhaps link to the rfc?

> - In alignment to the business strategy, making executors and auto-indexing available by default on managed instances and ensuring will be key part of moving Auto-indexing into Beta.

Reviewer: I think this is missing some why, why is it key?  executors are a tool to get us to where?

### Themes

**Make code navigation feel fast and reliable**

> We receive a significant amount of feedback around papercuts and potential improvements to our navigation experience. We are commited to making our navigation feel fast and reliable to our users. Our current focus is in solving long-standing navigation issues while also adding quality of life improvements with the aim of strenghthening the core workflow that the majority of users interact with daily.

Reviewer: What are the top things we're going to tackle here? Are there any actionable metrics around speed, if not, will we add those?

**Code intelligence platform API**

> Several recent efforts have shown an increasing need to unify the [code intelligence data platform](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AjZ_d0nJVHbV75IH3jZRkrGXhsv_AXp2kS4nrw2SAQ8). These efforts show an immediate need to be able to correlate and aggregate data from different sources within an API boundary (instead of re-implemented on several clients). This will set precedent for where code goes in relation to code intelligence domains and will establish clear ownership boundaries for other product teams to build on top of. We see this engineering milestone as a large enabler for every product vertical, and a key part in enabling deep integration among our code-related concepts as a code intelligence platform.

Reviewer: What efforts? I think we could highlight more that this allows product verticals to integrate (like this would be the front and center thing I think)

**Ship precise language support**

We’ve historically invested in broadening our span of supported languages. This is an ongoing effort that ties directly back to the Global Code Graph vision, aiming to support languages that cover 90% of code intelligence actions at customers and Sourcegraph Cloud (see our [language share dashboard section](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/159)). Increasing precise support contributes to push forward any security features we choose to implement as it makes compiler-accurate metadata available for all our product verticals. We're currently working on:

> - Adding precise cross-repository Python and PyPi package support in preparation for our Python indexer launch.

Reviewer: Do we want to add that outside of Ruby/C++ we're unlikely to add any more precise languages _based_ on current demand/team headcount?

> - Implementing Ruby support.

Reviewer: Long term this includes RubyGems integration right?

> - Implementing Ruby support.

Author: ```suggestion
- Implementing Ruby support and integrating with RubyGems.
```

Our next step is helping customers set up, monitor and weed out any issues that might arise from our first trials to move auto-indexing into Beta. At this point we’ll be aiming to roll it out to a larger number of customers.

**Unlock dependency navigation**

> We believe this is emerging as an additional killer feature. Most developers think in terms of package and dependency versions rather than focusing on external repositories. Supporting precise dependency navigation elevates the code navigation experience to a new level of cross-project analysis. Dependency navigation coupled with cross-repository takes the IDE model and scales it to encompass the whole cognitive space of a company.

Reviewer: Do we want to include a more concrete use case?  Something around internal users being able to see if a function is able to be removed/deprecated?  For security folks they're able to see if a function is called anywhere (whether in their code or somewhere else in their deps graph?)

> The ability to navigate to any third party dependency a repository references is key to use cases like developer onboarding where time to value is directly related to how fast a developer is able to navigate and understand a new codebase (including the dependencies it relies on). Taking it a step further, adding support for a wider set of package hosts opens the door to a whole new array of cross-team features that support our use cases. These include (but are not limited to):

Reviewer: what cross-team features?

- Make Sourcegraph a must-have for code security teams and helping react to incidents by searching and finding references to vulnerable dependency versions or errors. Having an available fully semantic graph of the code in question allows other products such as Batch Changes to provide fast fixes and turnarounds during incidents and vulnerability detections.
- Accelerating developer onboarding by enabling the ability to search over the full transitive dependency graph.
- Monitor code health by creating Code Insights that track deprecated dependency usages and version drift.
- Encourage code reuse by making precise navigation the obvious way to find references to relevant usage examples.

These are all currently in early stages of development and discussion. Read more about how we're thinking about the dependency graph in [RFC 593: Unlocking use cases based on the dependency graph of repositories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SkM8CG0IksvPEKRBRVLKipiRJTopx6Vq_hSWRJ9NyKs/edit#heading=h.trqab8y0kufp).

### How do these all tie together?

> Every one of the themes above contributes to push forward our vision. Auto-indexing serves a double purpose: it lowers the barrier to adoption by making precise code intelligence easier to configure, and also unlocks the ability to index and navigate dependencies. By adding more language support, combined with adding package hosts support, and improving our navigation features overall we're aiming to position Sourcegraph as a superior code navigation platform that goes beyond baseline expectations and creates delightful experiences for our users.

Reviewer: I think this can be made leaner and lose some of the longer sentences.  I'd delete the first sentence and lead with "X serves a double purpose cos..."

> Every one of the themes above contributes to push forward our vision. Auto-indexing serves a double purpose: it lowers the barrier to adoption by making precise code intelligence easier to configure, and also unlocks the ability to index and navigate dependencies. By adding more language support, combined with adding package hosts support, and improving our navigation features overall we're aiming to position Sourcegraph as a superior code navigation platform that goes beyond baseline expectations and creates delightful experiences for our users.

Author: ```suggestion
Auto-indexing serves a double purpose: it lowers the barrier to adoption by making precise code intelligence easier to configure and unlocks the ability to navigate dependencies. By adding more language and package host support we're aiming to position Sourcegraph as a superior code navigation platform that goes beyond baseline expectations and creates delightful experiences for our users.
```

Reviewer: I'd perhaps try:

Auto-indexing serves a dual purpose:
* Lowers the barrier to adoption, meaning higher amounts of code have precise intelligence.
* Unlocks dependency navigation 

By adding precise support for more languages (and integration with their respective package host) we can provide a superior code navigation platform that pushes past the IDE paradigm (find references on all your things etc).

Additionally, providing the precise code intelligence data layer sets the foundations to unlock new features in our other product verticals (e.g. powering symbol renaming in Batch Changes, using number of call sites to power ranking in Search) and enhancing already existing product verticals (e.g more accurate dependency tracking in Code Insights). This will make Sourcegraph a powerful integrated solution for a large array of developer use cases, which will be hard to match by any single competitor.

### What's next and why

- **Adding precise C#:** Based on our team's bandwidth and skill set, we are not planning to work on this language this quarter. However, to support our [Grow ARR and Iterate with existing customers first](../index.md#this-year-fy23) goals, we are working towards prioritizing these languages later this year based on current customer language share and associated ARR.

> 

Reviewer: Do we need to add something about Rust?
